[Music]
do you remember your favorite teacher in
school was it someone who instead of
just shoving a bunch of curriculum down
your throat so you'd pass some
standardized test seem to really care
about your personal growth and future
success
yeah the best teachers usually have that
in common
especially the world's official best
teacher of 2019 Peter to he
teaches math and science at a school in
rural Kenya now before you find out
about the incredible work this man is
done you have to understand the
challenges he's up against you might
think that in the 21st century all kids
around the world can get an education
but sadly that's just not the case for
over 260 million children the carico
Secondary School where Toby Qi works is
situated in one of those places where
education is more of a rare luxury than
anything with only one computer for the
whole school and poor internet it would
be an understatement to say that the
place is ill-equipped to make matters
worse it's understaffed and overcrowded
meaning there's only one teacher for
every 58 students a huge student to
teacher ratio like that means less
individualized attention and usually a
lower success rate for kids even getting
to school is a challenge for a lot of
the young ones most of them have to walk
for miles and in the rainy season many
of them can attend all together because
the roads get flooded apart from that
ninety-five percent of the students come
from extremely poor families or not at
all
even in the u.s. dropout rates are five
times higher among students that come
from families with economic hardship so
you can only imagine what it's like in a
small Kenyan village kids often quit
school to start working or get married
because it means more stability and food
on the table I know it seems like a
hopeless situation but now you'll really
be able to appreciate and rejoice about
the fact that the boys and girls from
this remote African village have taken
part in international science
competitions and won an award from the
Royal Society of Chemistry
and this is all thanks to the BG's
energy and faith in his students he
started a talent Club that encourages
kids to create all kinds of projects and
boy have they shown what they're capable
of
for example at the Kenya Science and
Engineering Fair cebiche students showed
a device that allows blind and deaf
people to measure objects oh and the
bright young minds invented it
themselves he also teaches his students
to look at things from different
perspectives that's why they often do
projects where the kids organize the
whole process themselves and analyze the
result they're all about using
imagination and letting the students
make the decision the role of creativity
is especially important in to be cheese
teaching since according to him you have
to get creative when you don't have many
resources together with his coworkers -
beachy also gives one-to-one tutoring in
math and science to low-performing
students talks to their parents and does
whatever he can to meet their needs if
that weren't enough he donates 80% of
his income to help the poorest members
of the community his hard work and
dedication are obviously paying off
apart from the international recognition
his students have gotten at global
science fairs the school's enrollment as
well as the number of graduates that go
on to college have doubled
he's also trying to improve social
issues in the community as a whole you
see some local tribes there really don't
get along
SOTA beachy started a peace Club to
unite the seven different tribes
represented at the school the kids work
together have peaceful and productive
discussions and make friends something
that would have seemed impossible in the
past as a Franciscan monk who minds you
rise to school on a dirt bike to Beach
he helps others through his teaching
it's not a job but more like selfless
charity work as he puts it caring for
people is in my heart and thus you can
now see why this modest science teacher
from rural Kenya won the prestigious one
million
global teacher prize presented by the
Varkey foundation this prize has awarded
to the best teacher of the year or as
the foundation puts it an exceptional
teacher who has made an outstanding
contribution to their profession
teachers from all corners of the globe
came through to the final they were all
deserving but to beaches victory was
unchallenged at the ceremony held in
Dubai and hosted by Hollywood star Hugh
Jackman to Beach he said I am only here
because of what my students have
achieved this prize gives them a chance
it tells the world that they can do
anything
the Varkey foundation presenting this
prize was created by entrepreneur and
education philanthropist sunny Varkey
Varkey himself is originally from India
one of those countries where not all
children have access to education as the
foundation motto goes everyone deserves
a great teacher and this is what they
inspired to in the first place to
support teachers who have to work in
severe conditions yet do their best to
give young people not only academic
knowledge but also a chance for a better
life the award is not only a way to show
appreciation for the hard work of
outstanding teachers but also
acknowledged that this profession
literally transforms young lives and
through them the life of the whole
community
the prize is paid over 10 years the
winner gets $100,000 each year and they
have to stay in the profession for the
next 5 years they become a global
ambassador of the Varkey foundation and
take part in events and trainings peter
toby qi is going to spend the money on
computer resources a scientific library
and new projects for the students and
village one major life-saving initiative
he's already started is teaching
community members how to grow drought
resilient crops which is crucial not
only for this small Kenyan village but
many like it throughout the African
continent
now back to the question I asked you
from the get-go which of your teachers
had the biggest impact on you let me
know down in the comments if you learn
something new today
then give this video a like and share it
with a friend but hey don't go anywhere
just yet
we have over 2,000 cool videos for you
to check out all you have to do is pick
the left or right video click on it and
enjoy stay on the bright side of life